#welcomeToLambda
//

Spirit of Independent Learning

After watching the TEDx video by Barbara Oakley answer these questions:

What are the two modes of thinking described in this video?
focus and diffuse.

Do you think the Pomodoro technique would help you with procrastination?
Yes. It starts with a timer. For 25 mins there is complete focus on a task and then 5 mins of relaxation. 
The purpose of the pomodoro is to give you a time alloted to complete focus attention. It does not equate
to completion within that time frame. 


Describe what is meant by “Illusions of Competence in Learning”.
It deals with comparison. What is meant by "Illusions of Competence" is that you are faced with the fear that you are not a master
of the material you are learning. 

What are some studying tips that you might implement after watching this video?
I believe in exercising more. I have hard time committing to my exercising and yoga. I need to definitely implement that into my daily 
routine to find success. I as well will start to effectively use the Pomodoro technique. I already do use the Pomodoro tenchnique however 
I did not know there was a specific name for it. Implementing it effectively should benefit me. 

// 

Outcomes Based Assessment

How are outcome based assessments different from traditional testing?
Outcome based assemssments are different in four ways from traditional testing. With OBA's clarity, flexibility, comparison, and invovlement can be used to better understand a student's progress.
Clarity provides each team member with an understanding of the goals for each sprint. Flexibility connects instructors to students in a unique way giving instructors a way to build around the student's needs.
Comparison provides feedbacks for students to determine if they have the skills necessary for their desired job. Lastly, involvement is the IWY. I do, we do, you do. This gives the students 
the ability to feel responsible for their own learning. This is all different from traditional testing because in traditional testing we do not have access to measuring ourselves in categories. In traditional
testing a student can only refer to a letter grade that matches up against peers. 

Describe what a “1”, “2” and “3” mean on assessments
This is the standard scale for Lambda grading. 1 means does not meet expectations. 2 means meets expectations. 3 means exceeds expectations.

Describe the process of “flexing” at Lambda School
Every student is part of the flex program. Flex gives students a way to learn at their own pace. If you fail two sprint challenges, then you will be require to flex to the previous unit.
Flexing is not negative. It gives the opportunity for students to solidify what is being taught. Flexing is not giving students the option to control hours of attendance. Flexing 
is to give students an opportunity to review the material while not falling further behind.

